Jordan's King Abdullah has called on US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin to
put pressure on Israel for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza the two held talks in
the Jordanian Capital Aman on Sunday the
meeting is part of a US initiated
diplomatic tour aimed at calming
tensions caused by the conflict blinkin
also toured a food distribution center
in Aman before traveling on to qat he'll
visit Israel the occupied West Bank as
well as Egypt and Saudi Arabia before
wrapping up his week-long diplomatic
push the UN is warning of a public
health disaster with the delivery of
vital supplies at only a trickle blinken
has called for Aid to be scaled up let's
bring in Tess Ingram from UNICEF the UN
Children's Fund what's the use of
scaling up Aid when it can't get into
the people of
Gaza well there's a double challenge Ben
it's a a matter of getting the aid in
and then and then getting it across the
Gaza Strip so we need to scale up Aid we
need to get it in as as quickly as
possible and then we need to tackle some
of the challenges that we face in
getting it to the children and families
who need it the most but that Aid is
absolutely critical so the um call to
scale it up is is both very well
welcomed Tess this one spot in the Gaza
Strip in the very south um is the only
spot where AID is getting in the border
to Egypt uh is there any hope of things
getting better there's been Talk of the
errors Crossing in the north being open
for example
yeah look we're calling for all existing
um Crossings into the Gaza Strip that
were were operating before the
escalation in hostilities to be reopened
uh one of those Crossings Kem Shalom has
been um opening for for some days but
but as you say there are others that
could be opened and we really need
access from as many possible routes that
are proven in order for us to get more
Aid in because at the moment we're only
getting in you know 100 150 trucks a day
day and before the escalation in
hostilities there was 500 so the need
has skyrocketed and the aid has dwindled
so it's it's really a a a very tragic
situation for the children and families
on the ground in gazer at the moment I
was going to say that aid needs to get
to so many children uh who were
overproportional
affected in this war tell us more about
the situation for
them which should should make up about
half of the population of Gaza so as you
say they're being proportionately
affected by this conflict there's you
know no safe space for a child in Gaza
at the moment there's bombs falling from
the air and disease loing around every
corner um as we just heard in your
report there's no food no Safe Water no
shelter and so parents and families are
really just exhausted by the sheer
exertion of trying to survive every day
um where we're hearing accounts from
families and children on the ground that
they often go days without eating and
when they do it's just a you know a
small amount of bread um so the
situation in terms of food is is
incredibly difficult and we're worried
in the coming weeks about a very real
risk of widespread famine and for the
kids who do manage to survive uh this
Onslaught what what sort of future is
for them how how worried are you about
the long-term effects of this war on
them it's a tragedy Beyond anyone's
wildest imagination and I think um one
of the things that we UNICEF are are
trying to prepare for and get ahead of
is the long-term mental health impacts
obviously these children will have many
of them physical scars from this
conflict but others uh will have lost
family they will have lost their home um
and endured uh ongoing fear for for for
days and for weeks throughout these
hostilities so as UNICEF we're not just
there delivering Aid we're also
providing support services to some of
these children to meet them where
they're at and um help them process some
of those emotions to try and reduce the
long-term impact of the traum trauma
that they're experiencing at the moment
their situation though is dependent on
diplomacy uh that's going on around the
region at the moment and and so many
different players but who is to blame
for things not having changed I mean
from day one where we're three months
into this war and the situation hasn't
changed
it really it is um unfathomable that
we're allowing this as a global
Community to continue UNICEF has been
calling for weeks now for an immediate
and long lasting humanitarian ceasefire
because we talk about Aid and the
changes that need to happen to get more
Aid in and that's important but a
ceasefire really is the only way that
we're going to be able to deliver enough
Aid to meet the need get it around Gaza
to the children and families that need
it and ultimately for the fighting to
stop because most people that we speak
to in Gaza at the moment are just urging
us for do to do whatever we can to end
the fighting as a humanitarian Aid
agency we can Advocate uh to to all
parties and to all of the International
Community to do what everybody can to
try and um end the fighting but It
ultimately needs needs to come from
outside you heard it from unicef's Tess
Ingram thank you very much for taking
the time out today to speak to us here
on D
news
thanks